Portugal History - Gharb al-Andalus


Part 4


Christianity and Judaism under the Muslim Rule


In major cities, the mosques replaced many churches. In several cities and towns, the Christians were confined in ghettos. Although they had the freedom of movement, they were forbidden from settling anywhere else. The priests no longer held official positions in the government, and the churches were often forbidden from ringing the bells within the cities. Christians were allowed to convert to Islam if they wished, but Muslims were not allowed to take up Christianity. Muslims were allowed to marry Christian women or take them as concubines, but Christian men could not do the same with Muslim women. The Christians also had to pay higher taxes than the Muslim residents.
...
There was never open persecution of Christians in Muslim-ruled Iberia, at least not until the late 11th century. Still, the Latin language was completely displaced, with Arabic replacing it. The Arabic language, culture, and education became the norm, and all ambitious Christians had to conform to it. There was an ever-present incentive to abandon Christianity and convert to Islam, which the majority of the population eventually did. The Islamization of the peninsula led to the weakening of the Christian Church, and soon enough, it struggled to survive.
...
The monasteries continued operating, especially in the territories north of Mondego, but nothing is known about the monasteries in the south. The south of what is today Portugal had two major Christian pilgrimage spots: the tomb of St. Vincent at Cape and the sanctuary of the Virgin Mary in Faro. The Muslim authorities respected these pilgrimage sites immensely and never disturbed them. Several Christians resisted the Muslim rule, and they were executed and became martyrs. One such was St. Sisnando, who was executed at Évora in 851.
...


The Muslim officials were suspicious of the ecclesiastical contact that the Christian Church of al-Andalus had with the outside Christian world, and they acted on it. The church became inward-looking and very isolated. Such isolation led to the development of different dogmas, which only further strengthened the loneliness of the al-Andalus Christians. One of these dogmas was the belief that Jesus Christ was the son of God only by adoption. In Gharb al-Andalus, the doctrine of Adoptionism was accepted, even though it was condemned by Rome. But in truth, the development of such different doctrines only served to display the need that the church felt to bridge the religious differences between the Christians and their Muslim rulers.
...
...during the late 11th century, both Jews and Christians suffered under the rule of the Almoravids and Almohads. 
The number of Jews significantly declined in al-Andalus, and the synagogues that existed in Lisbon, Beja, Silves, and Évora were nearly empty.


From History of Portugal


Saint Vincent
Cape St.Vincent or Cabo de São Vicente in Portuguese is the southwesternmost point of Portugal and continental Europe. The dramatic landscape and breathtaking views make the cape one of the not-to-miss places in the Algarve. 
...
The cape was named after Saint Vincent, an Iberian deacon who was martyred in the 4th century. According to the legend his body was brought here. Later a small stone shrine was built at the place of his burial. In the 12th century, the remains of the saint were transferred to Lisbon.


https://youtu.be/eE14RzB3o1E?si=AUKykXOCPoK8HzrZ


https://thealgarvefamily.com/cabo-sao-vicente-algarve/
